I remember this story shook me to my
core when I heard it. My friend and she
was about 40 45 years old and her mom
was dying and she was in the hospital
sitting by her bedside
and she was pretty much out of it close
to comeosse.
And right before she died, she woke up
and she said, "All my life I felt like
there was something wrong with me. What
a waste." And those were her final
words. And when I heard that,
I had two realizations. First was, yeah,
that that is a waste. And the second
thing was, oh, I don't want to be in
that position. I don't want to be on my
deathbed and thinking, oh, what a waste.
And so, it's this very human thing. And
then the question is, well, what is it
that makes it that we can live a life we
don't regret? And in this woman's words,
in this woman's words is there, I always
thought there was something wrong with
me. And that's the clue. So that's what
we're going to go into in this video.
So the best way we can start is to look
at how regret actually works. So you
have a conversation and you walk away
regretting the conversation. Typically
what that means is that you wanted an
outcome of the conversation
and you didn't get it or you're not sure
if you got it. You're never going to
always get the result that you want,
which means there's always going to be a
moment of regret unless you can find a
way to act that you think, "Oh, I have
no regrets despite what happened. I have
no regrets despite getting what I want
or not getting what I want." And so
that's the first question. So think
about it for a moment. Think about a
moment where you regretted what you did.
And then you almost always there will be
an outcome there that you didn't want.
So now I want you to think, what is it
that you could have done that would have
made you have no regret
in that interaction and still gotten the
same results? You still didn't get the
people to like you. You still didn't get
the job. You still didn't get the money.
But you think to yourself, I have no
regrets.
And usually that boggles the mind. The
mind goes, but no, that's not what I
can't. Huh?
So let me give you a little hint.
Imagine that situation and you were 100%
true to yourself.
You were 100%
upright in yourself. You were
self-possessed.
So that before you found out what the
result was, you felt proud of the way
that you behaved.
So if you really allow yourself to feel
that like, oh, I just walked in that
situation. I am proud of the way that I
behaved. How much does it matter that
you got the result that you wanted as
far as regret goes? You still might want
the result, but how much regret do you
feel
if you are proud of how you behaved?
Right? So, typically what we're doing in
those situations is we're thinking this
is the result I want. How do I get it?
And we contort ourselves into doing or
saying the thing that we think will get
us what we want and then we don't get it
and then we feel regret.
But if we don't contort ourselves, if we
say, "No, this is how I'm proud of being
and I'm going to be this way." We don't
feel that regret. And and the there's a
great reason for that. And the great
reason is that if we are ourselves, then
the things that say yes to us are the
things that are saying yes to us, not
the contorted version of ourselves.
The people who give us money for our
job. the people who like us are the
people who like us for us who we're
proud of, not like us for the contorted
sense of self that we did to try to
please them.
And so we actually design a life by
being ourselves. We design a life of
people who like us for us, who people
who want to support us for us, of people
who believe in us for who we are.
And that's a life that is appealing,
that feels good. And if we do that,
then not only are you not living in
regret because you're being yourself,
but you're also designing a life that's
going to lead to a lot of happiness. So
what does that mean? It means that if
you are regretting a conversation, you
are very likely going to regret the day.
If you regret the day, you're very
likely going to regret the year. If you
regret the year, you're very likely
going to regret your life. So, if you're
living days of regret, even though you
might not want to face it,
you're most likely going to have a
lifetime of regret. And the good news
that this means is that if you actually
die and you don't have regrets, it means
that you're going to be living your days
without regret either.
And that becomes a really simple
equation when you bring it back down to,
oh, all I need to do is act in a way
that makes me proud.
But let's make sure that this is true
for you, right? Don't trust my word for
it. I want you to actually do an
experiment to prove it to yourself.
So here's what you do. Every day for the
next week, you think about one thing
that you regret. And every day you think
to yourself, how is it that I could have
been in that situation that would have
made me not regret [music] it? No matter
the outcome, no matter if I got a yes or
a no or a rejection or acceptance,
I just was 100%
something that I'm proud of. And so
there could be no regret. And then learn
from that. And the next day
you're in a situation where you're
worried about something going right or
wrong. and just be yourself. Be somebody
that you're proud of in that moment.
And then every day you're learning.
Every day you're iterating so that you
become more and more in alignment. And
just do that for a week. So seven days
of iteration, seven days of
experimentation of being more and more
truly yourself. And notice how much
regret you're feeling at the end of that
week. One week. One week experiment of
seeing what it is to be yourself. And
you're going to have all sorts of fears.
Oh, I can't be myself here because I
might [sighs]
have somebody upset at me or I I I can't
be myself because I'm going to feel too
vulnerable or I can't be myself because
and you're going to have this long
litany of things. But those are the
things that you're going to regret.
Those are the things that you're going
to say, "Oh, I wasn't myself
because I was scared of some result."
But what you're actually scared of is
the result and being yourself. So, let's
go back to that original story that I
was telling you about where the woman
was dying and she said, "All my life I
felt like there was something wrong with
me. What a waste."
What she was saying there was that all
my life I wasn't being myself because I
felt like there was something wrong with
me.
And because [music] of that, I had a
life that wasn't designed for me.
And that was a waste. I wasted [music]
my life.
So if you just be yourself, you'll
realize there's nothing wrong with you.
You'll realize that there is a whole
world designed [music]
whole world designed for you waiting for
you to be you.